Now that we created this component,
it's important to understand how components can communicate with each other.
Let's say we have a list of persons here in our app component, in our root component.
So here I'll add a persons property to this class and I'll turn this into a list and this list will
simply have a couple of names - Max, Manuel, Anna. By the way, Typescript has its name because it depends
heavily on types and it kind of yells at you by throwing an error down there in the terminal
when you violate types. Now it is able to infer a lot of type,
for example Typescript will already know that persons is of type array which in turn holds strings and
you can see it if you hover over it, here you see it's a string array,
this is kind of how Typescript defines a list of strings.
You can also set your own types by adding a colon after the property name here or after the function
or after your variable and then define your own type, like string array.
This is a bit redundant here because Typescript was able to infer this but you can still do
it manually if you want.
If I change this to number array
for example, you see I get an error here because the type string is not assignable to type
number
and if I would save this, I would also get an error down there as you can see.
So that's pretty sweet about Typescript,
so let me change this back to a string and let's come back to your original question,
how can we pass that data down to the other component and use it there?
Well, nothing easier than that.
Angular has a couple of powerful data binding features and one of these binding features is property
binding.
We have our property here in app component and in the template, we want to pass it on to persons.
So in persons component, we probably also want to have a persons or maybe person list, you can name it
however you want,
I'm naming it differently here to make it easier to differentiate the different properties
but here I'm basically adding a new property to my persons component and I know that this should also
be a list of strings, let's say
and here I should define my type because here Typescript is not able to infer the type because I'm not
setting a default value.
Now it's nice that I know that I want to have a list of persons but the data for that list needs to
come from outside
you could say, it's not inside this component
we actually have the data in here, maybe let's say because we fetched it here with a HTTP request or
for whichever reason.
So how can we pass the data from app component to persons component?
Well we can set up our own bindable property and we do this by importing something from @angular/core,
you add a comma after component and then you import input. Input is again a decorator
but this time not a decorator you add in front of a class but instead one which you add in front of
a property, again with @ and then the name, input
and then you also need parentheses.
Now what this does is it tells Angular that this property of this component can be bound from outside
but what do I mean with this?
It means that we can now go to our app.component.html file where we use that tag
and here, we can set this just as we can set attributes on normal HTML elements,
at least it's kind of comparable to that.
There's just one special thing, for property binding to tell Angular that you are now binding the property
of that other component, you add square brackets here and then the name of the property you want to bind
and there I'll bind to person list which is the name of the property
I have in person component, this one.
Then here between double quotes, I can pass in my value and I could define a new array here, should be
an array of strings of course because I'm expecting a list of strings here and I could parse Michael
here
but of course I already have my own list here in the app component, I have it here in this persons property.
Now conveniently, I can access any properties I have in here inside of the template of the component.
So if I have something in a Typescript file of a component, of the app component, I can use it in the
template of that same component.
So here I can just type persons and reference the values which are inside my persons array here, inside
of this persons property.
And now if I save this, this will actually work
but of course we'll not see anything, we're not rendering this person list but it will be passed down,
we don't get any errors here.
But how can we now output this list of persons?